Thank you again. Thank you very much everyone for participating. Thank you very much for coming.
I said quite a few times. Thank you. Thank you very much again.
Now, we're going to again go through the teachings of our gracious teacher, Bodhakhyakya Muni and
Guru Padmasambha,
all those lineage masters who taught first-time gracious teacher, Bodhakhyakya Muni,
and then continually carried by so many great practitioners, what we call great masters.
They continually carried. So they are the Sangha members.
Sangha members continually carried these precious teachings of non-violence, peaceful,
harmony, respect, and appreciation, and discovering our one's own and its beautiful nature,
and also helping support to others to discover their innate natures.
That's what we're going to again continue. You all know, already received so many teachings
from many great masters, and you already practiced it, but somehow this is what we're doing today.
It will be reactivated, restented, reminded of our practice in meditation,
where we are studying, where we are going, and what is our destination of this spiritual or the
practice journey.
So that's what really we do, doing according, my capabilities, and then some degree, it's support.
So I wish. And again, to do this, to start with the practice in the teachings,
always so important to recollect our intention, or glorifying our beautiful,
sleeping, beautiful motivation, we have to wake up that.
We have beautiful motivation, beautiful intention in our heart and mind,
but many times it's in the sleeping mood.
So that, when you're sleeping, then that's the sleeping siesta or whatever it is.
So we have to really activate it. We have to bring that alert and freshness to it.
Every day we have to fresh it, not just a month and a while, in a month and a week or something.
Really, according to the teaching, we have to activate and refresh it.
This motivation is so, glorious motivation, so important, so necessary.
All our practice, all our realization, all our fulfillment are absolutely best upon our one's own
motivation.
And who controls our motivation? Nobody else controls our own motivation.
Each of us has 100% one responsibility and capability to activate it and to redirect that.
If we don't redirect that, then what is? That's called samsara.
Then we are continually heading to the samsara, all these difficult challenges.
But this time, according to the gracious teacher, Buddha Kya Kya Manu's teaching and the lineage
teaching,
we're trying to make some difference in our own, these precious lives when we are here.
Right now, really, right this lifetime, we like to make something, some fulfillment, some degree,
that we can enjoy ourselves and we can also, at the same time, inhabit ourselves
and also, somebody, so our families, friends and neighbors, others, also make something really
happy,
particularly those who are kind of a little bit relying or we are connected and we can do.
That is what we call in Dharma, we are making the meaning for our lives.
That is really meaningful. That is common, that is ground, that is practical, that is very sensible
.
It's really sensible and practical. It is so powerful. That's it.
So the order to do that is our motivation.
And of course, always the great masters, when they give teaching, always said, "Recorrect the
motivation."
That is always, because it's so important. Important. It's not just, "I'm saying that," it's common
.
Every time when they give sessions, teachers say, "Correct the motivation."
We already know, we are practicing, we received the teaching and we heard that,
but it's not just on the memory banks or somewhere else, but really activating is so, so important.
And this time, activation of the motivation is joy and appreciation first.
Feel happy and joy, ourselves. We have every right and every opportunity.
It's not just making up the stories. You ask yourself or each of us,
ask ourselves. Ask me and ask, "I'm going to ask myself," and also you ask yourself.
We have every reason to feel happy and joy, beautiful things.
And the spiritual level or dharma level, as well as samsara world level, we are quite well-occupied
.
Really, every aspect, we have to glorify, happy, joy.
That is dharma, called Buddhism. It's not something that we are making details, happy and joy,
but also have the same time, courage and commitment to continue to activate it, glorify that.
Along with that, there is a vastness, motivation of the bodhicitta.
Of course, we also heard so many times, "I heard, you heard this bodhicitta."
But it's not just heard intellectually, no, kind of in a way, a memory state.
Activating. Activating, that is so important. Bodhicitta is.
The essence of bodhicitta is compassion. That we know.
Poor, boneless. Among that, many times in the teachings,
with the boneless of loving-kindness, boneless of compassion, come down on the front of the bodhic
itta.
Really, from the core of our heart, or the bottom of our heart.
Activating that. Have that bodhicitta, thinking of all living beings.
That, thinking of all living beings, is bodhicitta. That is bodhicitta.
Everybody has some degree of compassion and loving-kindness,
but everyone is not thinking of all living beings.
Mahayana or the bodhicitta, thinking of all living beings,
even as you all know, we heard that, they put front of all the beings than ourselves.
They are the front of us, in a way. Or they are more important than us.
God in the teachings said, we've been continually, for a long time,
being a self-important, self-centered mind, our self.
That didn't really work at all.
We continually went in the samsara, even more deeper in the samsara.
Samsara of the world, of duology, challenges, difficulties,
disadvantages, uncomfortable, comfort. And nothing is correct. Nothing is right.
That's all happening, one after another.
No matter whatever we are surrounded, even the luxury of the lab,
sitting in the luxury of the lab, still it's not enough.
Still it's not correct. That's really what we are.
I'm not saying that street people, but we all have that duty,
and more we want. More we have, more we want.
And that goes on and on, on and on, until our last breath.
Maybe we have that. Then there's nothing to do.
We go with disappointment, some duty, unfulfillment.
But instead, activate joy and appreciation, love and compassion.
Really we become rich, our self, rich in content, joy,
and appreciate all those beautiful things come up, up.
So therefore, this bodhi, the vastness in the teaching said vastness, motivation,
vastness, the motivation of thinking of all living beings,
beings that I'm going to practice, I'm going to meditate,
what all my activities of the bodhi, speech, and mind,
may they become as one of the great support and help
to bring the joy, peace, happiness for all living beings,
for mankind, for the animals, to every living beings.
That we see, we don't see. And that we know or we don't know.
But there's so many people are, beings are struggling.
Really we can get into your thought that is essence, heart,
the central column of the Mahayana practices or the central column
of the Buddha's teaching, the greatest teacher, the Buddha Shakyamuni.
And that, not just the Buddha said, that echoed by all those great practitioners
or great masters, continue one after another.
And since we are the follower of those great masters
and those great beings, also we should activate that.
It really makes sense. It's meaningful.
It makes a happy and joy and a performance.
And it's all good with that.
And then we have the way, the schedule means the motivations.
Those are in the teaching said, very honest,
reality level, everything is enlightened status,
or everything is enlightened, or where things are as it is.
Where things are as it is, everything is enlightened.
Everything is in a divine, mental status.
But why we don't see this? Because due to the duality,
duality as a cataract of our eyes, we don't perceive things.
We are things out.
So therefore, even though we are in the midst of the duality,
we try to activate it about the origin of quality.
We are seeing everything as divine, mental, or three wagers status,
or the three kaya status, and three wagers.
Wager poems, all the poems are enlightened.
Wager means what? Actually, indestructible.
Indestructible in this realm, what means?
This cannot be changed.
Nature of the poem is enlightened.
It cannot change any circumstances.
Reality, that is fact.
Fact cannot be changed, destroyed.
It's like a wager.
Whether we recognize that, whether we don't recognize,
fact is fact.
It's enlightened. It's a purity status.
And sound is a wager status.
It's a mantra, divine sound, love and compassion,
soothing, and all the wager teachings, all the teachings.
That is, again, whether we recognize, not,
it's that is the fact.
Therefore, it's called, cannot be unbreakable, like wagers.
And mind is enlightened.
That is also wager mind and wager space,
all these enlightened status.
And the zoki teachings, it's three kaya status,
three kayas, poems are the nirmakayas,
sounds are the dharmakaya,
and mind is the,
poems are the nirmakayas,
sounds are the sambhokaya.
I'm sorry, maybe I mixed up there.
But mind is a dharmakaya status.
It's originally enlightened.
It's not something newly we are developing
through the process of the practice of meditation,
a kora teaching.
And through the process of the meditation practice,
that is then become the compounded.
Compounded is temporary.
You develop it by the cause and condition,
develop it, then it can change.
Nature cannot change.
Therefore, it's called wager, as it is.
The enlightenment is already discovering.
Of course, in the zoki teachings said,
and you all know, is the discovering
of our inner nature,
matter, midst of the duality.
We clear away the duality and discovery of the ordinal,
that completely fully awakened qualities.
That is a wager,
discovering ordinal state of the three kayas.
So those are really,
even though we don't have realization right this moment,
but trying to kind of bring up those,
at least open the door toward their directions,
is very important.
And of course, this kind of way,
and in a way, is an intellectual way.
We are just covering and connecting that.
But that intellectual, according to the teaching,
it is lined up with the true nature.
It's not false.
We are making the progress.
We open the door of the reality of the true natures.
Those understand.
And now, we go to this sadhana,
or sorry, a sadhana,
or the practices or the teachings.
This is, again, of course,
this is, here,
a short discourses,
a course on the view, meditation, and conduct.
So that is what I'm trying to go over this,
slowly by slowly,
and then kind of like discovering some degree of the teachings
of the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni.
And some of them, they need a master's.
So that's what we are doing.
And again, to do this, again,
so we think, of course, we all know this.
But always, it is important to trace the back
where we really come from,
or where this teaching belongs or come from.
This teaching comes from the greatest teacher,
Buddha Shakyamuni,
and who came, 2,600 years ago.
And Buddha is full of love,
full of compassion, full of wisdom.
Understanding everything, exactly perfect,
exactly as it is, without exaggeration,
without understanding.
Exacty see things are written.
Those are known as the wisdom of the enlightenment.
When you get enlightenment,
or when you are enlightened,
there is no blockage of the world
between reality and knowledge.
See everything as it is.
So, then, Buddha gives detailed teachings of this.
And also, Buddha gives, when he teaches,
Buddha knows exactly what to give the teachings.
For example, the audience comes to the greatest teacher,
to the Buddha Shakyamuni,
and the teaching says,
Buddha immediately recognizes, sees,
that person's intention,
design and motivation,
what they are interested in.
A cold daily Buddha spoke,
had discussions with them,
and then the audience is full of happy and joy
and satisfaction with deep respect.
"Wow!" to the Buddha says, "load the feet,
and left place with joy,
and happy, and perform at all satisfaction."
Why?
Because Buddha knows exactly what is capability,
what is necessary,
what is important,
what suits teaching to that individual.
For that reason,
when Buddha reached enlightenment age 35,
he gave, since age 35,
until he entered Mahabharata in Iran age 81 or 80,
80 around that time,
and Buddha gives the teachings
that according to capabilities,
desires, motivation,
and so they can apply, everyone.
No one is turned back away,
and everyone can follow the path.
The path is to discover our own innate nature,
our own or one's own nature.
The path is not something alien,
that is Buddha is told.
The path is to discover our,
or each of their innate nature,
with love, with compassion,
with non-violence.
And therefore, there are many teachings.
That's what Buddha's teachings are called,
84,000 different topics of the teachings that Buddha gives.
Those teachings are named in the teachings,
because why that many teachings?
Because our emotions,
there are so many emotions,
negative emotions.
Negative emotions,
there are three principles of negative emotions,
that we, of course, we have so many times.
The ignorance, attachment, and anger.
Each of those, that is called,
there are 21,000 related,
principally connected emotions of the ignorance.
21,000 of the emotions
related with attachment.
And 21,000 emotions
more connected with anger.
more connected to all combination,
three of them together.
So for that reason, Buddha gives 84,000 teachings.
85,000 teachings, and what in the teachings said,
you said, or in the Dokki teachings said,
in order to dispel the purified,
the 21 negative, ignorant emotions,
Buddha gave 21,000 teachings
of the Abhidharma teachings.
And in order to dispel of the attachment,
of the 21,000 emotions,
Buddha gave 21,000 different teachings
related with more Vinaya teachings.
And in order to dispel all the subdue
of the 21,000 of the anger related,
and Buddha gave 21,000 of the Sattara teachings.
And in order to dispel all those negative emotions,
three emotions, 21,000, Buddha gave 21,000
of the Varyana teachings.
All together, 84,000 teachings.
Those are the teachings said.
So now these all teachings,
when you summarize, and what these teachings are,
can be summarized into three,
to simplify what is commonly known as
three basket teachings that we all heard.
What are those three basket teachings?
Again, I just listed that, of course, you know all.
And that is Vinaya basket teachings of the Vinaya,
basket teachings of the Sattara, basket teachings of the Abhidhana.
So three basket teachings.
Why is it called a basket?
Because a basket means that it's a treasure box.
A treasure box has not just one piece,
there is variety of treasure in that one treasure box.
So Vinaya basket has a variety of the jewels, treasures.
What are again related with, again, with the conduct,
with morality, with concentration, with resistance.
So there is jewels of the teachings
on the pacifically highlight of the morality teaching,
pacifically highlight of the teachings of the concentrations,
pacifically teachings highlight of the wisdom teachings
within the basket of the Vinaya.
Vinaya is generally named as like the conduct, the morality teaching, all.
But within that has all those three trails.
And similarly, Sattara teaching has also that three.
So it's called a basket, all that teaching.
Sattara has morality teaching, Sattara teaching.
Sattara has the concentration of teaching, Sattara has Abhidhana teachings,
all the wisdom teachings.
And Abhidhana teaching has all those same things,
and has teachings of the morality, teachings of the concentrations,
teachings of the wisdom.
So that means essence of the three basket teachings comes to art.
And it comes as true, what is in Buddhism called long chu, tok chu.
The scriptural teaching and the practice teachings,
or the realization of practice teaching,
teaching of the practice, teaching of the scriptures.
The scriptural teachers, all those suttas, what I said.
But practice, what do you practice?
The essence of that is practice.
That is practice on the moralities,
practice on the concentrations, practices on the wisdoms.
These three are in Buddhism, many of you all know,
three extraordinary training practices.
What is train?
Train our body, train our mind,
train our speech, voice,
so it becomes more gentle,
body becomes more gentle, peaceful,
and more calming to ourselves or to the others,
or pleasing to others and ourselves.
And the speech becomes more calmer, more peaceful,
more gentle, more polite, more simple,
more frank and simple.
And mind becomes also more calmer, more peaceful.
You, with love and compassion,
and not buddling with all different discursive,
emotional thoughts, one after another,
every different direction, it becomes calmer.
Therefore, it is called training to ourselves.
By what?
Our one's own self.
As we received the teaching, we will also activate that
about our practice.
So in that context, this teaching,
what we are going to show is the teaching is,
again, among those, like, three basket teachings,
this particular teaching is Vajrayana teaching.
And now maybe you're thinking Vajrayana teaching belongs where?
Vajrayana teaching belongs to the, again,
in the three basket teachings.
Within the Vajrayana teaching, it has morality teaching,
it has a concentrated teaching, it has wisdom teachings.
And what are the morality teachings of the Vajrayana teachings?
Morality is all the Samayas.
Wow, those are the morality teachings.
It's different names.
Morality maybe didn't make it all the time, but Samayas.
Samaya is guidance, guidelines of the core conduct.
Conduct our body, our verbal thought, verbal communication,
as well as our mind, how our mind acts.
So that is really, that is a Samaya.
And concentrations or the Samadis of the Vajrayana teaching,
such as then all the concentrated practice, meditation,
sajid, sah, lung, tomo practices, all the visualization practices.
Those are highlights of concentration and Samadhi meditation.
And what is then the wisdom practice of the Vajrayana teachings,
as according to Dukhin, then Dukhin is the wisdom practices, teachings.
It is directly connected with our own origin and nature,
our own mind or discover our energy and nature.
So that is known as the wisdom practice.
So that means Vajrayana teaching is also within the categories
of the three baskets teaching.
Suttara, sorry, Vinaya of the Vajrayana, Vinaya teaching of the Vajrayana,
Suttara teaching of the Vajrayana, and Abhidharma teaching,
teachings of the Vajrayanas.
Abhidharma teaching is a very high light that Dukhi teaching
is the Abhidharma teaching of the Vajrayana teaching,
highlight that according to the Nirma schools of the Ved Buddhism.
And then, of course, each again has all that.
So those are generally understanding.
And now this teaching, this particular teaching,
is taught by or taught by a great master
who came in the 19th century,
or led 19th century and early 20th century, great master,
known as I'm already here.
I'm sure you, many of you already know this.
And that is then, his name is known as Chichi Jatsab Pema Namjia, Chichi.
Chichi is the monastery in East Tibet, one of the famous Nirma monasteries
as well as meditation centers in East Tibet, known as Chichi monasteries.
Actually, in the Nirma schools,
particularly more kind of in the mid 15th century or mid those centuries,
there is then developed the kind of named six famous monasteries in Nirma monasteries,
six famous monasteries, that kind of, I think,
more activated around mid 15th century or six around that times.
Those are the two famous monasteries in the center of it,
known as the Mendelung Monastery and Dojietak monasteries.
These two monasteries are so famous because it has also academic studying
and the meditation center.
Why these two are important?
To uphold the teaching of the Buddha is need studying and practices.
So my hike and more particularly associated highlight of the studying
is academic study because Buddha teaching is not just the only kind of believing practices.
You also always get analyzed and study, contemplating on those meanings.
That's what great teacher Buddha Chagyamuni himself said,
said that you should exam and investigate, not just only relying on my words.
Those are the teachings said and therefore since the Buddhist begins
from the 50th century, so all the time, then there has always been a study.
That is a big one famous, like Nalanda Monastery University in India and then so forth.
So that's what the teaching said and it is also a great master, Basu Bendu said.
What is the teaching of the Buddha?
He said the Buddha's teaching is sequential and practices.
And how you uphold that practice is studying and practice.
That will uphold Buddha teaching.
So in that context, in a way, what we are doing now is in a way a little bit studying.
Kind of understand the brain, a little more understanding of that.
That means we are upholding the teaching of the Buddha.
Once we know that and then we start to practice meditating,
that means upholding the practice aspect of lineage.
That will bring the realization because the teaching itself is really explaining the nature of our
mind.
The nature of all these phenomena, when you see this, ultimately everything comes to the mind.
So when you practice that, then you discover our energy and nature.
Nature, that upholds the Buddha teaching.
So for those context level, in Buddhism, all the monosters they have,
particularly those bigger monosters they have, then this Shirda and Drupdas.
So, for example, the Mendoza monastery has Shirda and Drupdas,
not just only the Mendoza monosters.
Mendoza monosters has so many branch monosters, too, and Dorjeta monosters.
So those are two famous monosters in the center of the temple,
and each of those has so many branch monosters.
And in the Eastern Tibet, there are four famous monosters.
Those are known as Sichi monosters and Dzogchi monosters.
And then Khatuk monosters and Bayar monosters.
Those are four famous monosters.
And each of those has so many branch monosters.
So famous.
Among those six monosters said, particularly Khatuk monosters
is one of the oldest monosters in Eastern Tibet.
And surely I think that is developed, I can't tell exactly that,
but maybe around 11 centuries.
Around 11th century it developed.
It's one of the big, really famous monosters that kept so strongly
of the lineage teachings of all the teachings,
particularly Nyingma teaching, and particularly Nyingma teaching.
There are three teachings in the center.
Anu Mahayoga teaching, Anu Yoga teaching, Ati Yoga teaching.
Those three teachings, particularly very much,
they kept so strongly in that monosters.
There are so many practitioners, so many academics,
and the practitioners who have been practicing at that time.
I mean, this is the story.
They are practicing on the monosters, hermitage,
and they got high realization.
And they also actualized of the Thalang Tomo practices.
And in the afternoon, many of those exercise of the Thalang Tomo practice,
the particular Thalang Tomo practice, they are flying in the sky.
The villages, you say, "Oh, don't, with the horse,
don't go up into that area, because these practitioners practice
and fly in the sky, that scares the horses."
So really, that was the story.
Very famous of all the lineage teachings, particularly Nyingma Kama teaching.
Thalang Tomo teaching, and the Kama teaching,
and particularly Kama teaching, is so famous,
and therefore it was named Katho Monosters,
particularly Katho Dorji Dhi.
That means Dorji Dhi is the Buddha guy's name.
So this Katho monastery is like as Dorji Dhi,
or the Buddha guy, where so many enlightments are booming up,
coming up that, that's what's it.
So among those six monasteries,
this Shishi monastery is one of the very famous monasteries,
where there's so many great masters came, one after another.
That's that.
And even those in the teaching said,
for example, this past chintse, past the kontro,
and the papal rumbuji, they all started in the Shishi monastery,
one of the great masters.
Masters, Shishi Pandita is a very famous master.
So he was really very famous.
Among that, Shishi Jarsap is like continually a region of the Shichin,
that means Shichin, there's three famous lamas,
and among that, the first one is the head of the Shichi monastery,
is Shichi Ramjan Rambojes, which is now still very active in India, in Bhutan.
And the second is the Shichi Jarsap.
Shichi Jarsap, this particular Shichi Jarsap,
become very famous, really famous.
He was born, I think, 1781 in Eastern Tibet,
and his father's name is known as Shira,
and the mother's name was known as Nakadoma.
He belongs with officials, something.
But anyway, he was recognized by the post-great chintse, great chintse.
When the former Shichi Jarsap was passed away,
he was a very good practitioner, a really good practitioner.
He was known as Ramjang Doji, I think.
Ramjang Doji, when he was going to pass,
he even mentioned, "I'm going to come back."
Now he said, "My body has become very old and very unkind of people,
and I think it's just better to leave this body
and be back as young child with good health that I like to come back."
So he mentioned it, and with those said,
and then he entered Mahaparinarana, and when he entered,
and then those students asked where his reincarnations,
particularly to post-great chintse,
and then very famous zoki master, head of zoki monastery,
also known as zoki manjor nanko doji, is very famous, really, zoki master.
So they asked two of them, and they both identified the same child,
and particularly Shichi post-chintse, and then he enthroned.
He enthroned as a Shichi monastery, and then he started practicing,
and particularly, really, he started with so many great masters
and he received teachings from the post-chintse, post-chintse,
post-chintse, and as well as many kaju lamas.
I mean, at that time, the Buddhism, what we call now a rimi movement,
is really started by the post-great chintse and post-chintse.
They become the master of the rimi movement.
That whole Buddhism, golden kind era of the Buddhism,
arise, rose again at that time.
Really, so harmonious and peaceful.
Everybody is practicing and meditating,
yet they just respect and appreciate everyone,
and they become so blended.
And so this great master, one of the most great in the F.A.C.,
rimi practitioners from the new master schools of the Buddhism,
and he started with post-chintse, post-chintse, post-chintse,
post-chintse, post-chintse, and the great master Maharambhujis,
and he become the heart students, all those great masters.
And then as Kimbo Prakhi Oza and Sarminde Trungvarambhujidar,
who is a former Sarminde Trungvarambhujidar,
who came of this country, the privilege, that one.
And so he received so many teachings.
Those are just highlighted, so many.
And the teachings, the practice,
he become the master of all the teachings,
and then he meditated in the practice.
He got high realization.
And the scholar, he also wrote,
I think more than 15 volumes of books and teachings,
and his foremost disciples are his Holiness Tingon Chintse Rambhujidar
and Shiching Kuntros, and as well as so many,
really, Lamas, those so many great masters
from what Kaju and as well as Nirma schools have become.
So he's a disciple.
So this is the one, Shiching Jartar Rambhujidar,
commonly known as Shiching Jarsab,
and then his full name is Yurmi Efema Namjars.
So that is how this Yurmi Efema Namjars is.
And now we go over this little bit of this,
that this teaching, of course, again,
always the teaching is divided into three groups.
When you go through these teachings,
always that's how in the teaching
all of those great master explained.
So I try to go follow with those instructions
and read as much as I can.
Now, in this way, on this teaching
is divided into those two groups,
the title and the text itself and the colophones.
So those are the three, three kandos of positive divisions.
And the first is now the title.
The title is, then we already read,
is in Tibetan, the Tagoonjoba, Tagoonjoba.
So, will, meditation and conduct,
that is explained in this here.
Now, if I can summarize this Tagoonjoba,
what is this teaching?
Again, as I said earlier, earlier,
this is the three extraordinary training practices.
Three, what are those?
Those are morality, concentration,
and the Muslims.
Muslims, which are which, if it's a strongness,
that conduct is morality teachings,
teachings on the moralities.
And meditation is concentration, samadhis.
And then, wu is wisdom.
So this is teachings on the morality,
teachings on the meditation,
teachings on the wisdom, have that way,
have that understanding.
And now, I mean, another way,
I mean, that is really the principle grounds.
Now, everything of the wu,
what is really wu?
And again, this teaching, this title explaining,
explaining the essence, condense the meaning
of the entire of these teachings.
Entire of this teaching.
So title is a summary of the teachings.
So it captures the principle meaning of the entire.
And now, this first begins with wu,
and then meditation, and then conduct.
Now, wu, generally, wu means what?
In a way, it is object.
Wu is object. And what means? That means,
because we are going to wu in the wu.
Wu in the wu.
That means wu-ing.
The wu, that means wu-ing can maybe,
I mean, you know maybe better,
but means that's something that you're going to look.
To what you're going to look? To the wu.
You're going to look to the wu.
That I think you also said, I'm wu-ing.
When you say I'm wu-ing, that means there's something to wu.
Wu.
So now you're going to wu-ing.
It's maybe not easy for me to pronounce that,
but you're wu-ing the wu.
Somebody told me that you're doing,
the way you're saying that, you're saying wu.
Wu and wu.
So either way, I hope you understand what I'm talking.
So that's the principle.
And you're wu-ing now.
But this time, what are you wu-ing?
This time, you're wu-ing the nature.
Not artificial.
You're really wu-ing the nature, exactly as it is.
And this, if we could talk a little larger level in the nyungma teaching,
the great master Mohan Rambhaji also said,
I mean it's a nyungma teaching.
Wu of the object, wu-
or wu of the object maybe, wu of the object as it is,
wu of the nature of the object,
and wu of the one's own awareness.
So there is three wu in a way.
This is more kind of like a larger level, wu is that.
Wu of the object, wu of the object of the nature as it is.
That is, in the vedayana teaching, particularly, for example,
in a tantra teaching,
that all objects are enlightened.
All objects are enlightened.
And that is a suggestion in Gohengarbha teachings.
All the elements are five female Buddhas.
And all the five aggregators are five male Buddhas.
And what are those elements, for example,
or maybe, let's say, with the five aggregators.
Poem is Buddha Verochanas.
And our poem and feeling is Renasambhavas.
Feeling aggregators.
Perception aggregate is Buddha Amitabha, feminist.
And conception aggregate is Buddha among Sadas.
And then, consciousness aggregate is Buddha Vayasambhavas.
It is already enlightened.
And all the, these five elements are already enlightened.
It's not just all enlightened.
All are is enlightened.
And the earth is Sangyechema.
And I think Sanskrit is Buddha Lhochanam.
I don't know if that will help you or anything.
But it is.
Earth is enlightened.
Buddha Lhochanas.
And sasaksho.
And water is enlightened, mother.
Mother mamakis.
And the fire is enlightened.
Mother kukkarmun.
In it a bit.
All white robes.
And wind is already enlightened.
It's known as tamsakdroma.
I think Sanskrit, Samaya, Taras, already enlightened.
Sky is already enlightened.
It is known as Vayar dhatu shorim.
O dor jayun soma.
So that means all these five aggregates,
five dyan is already enlightened.
You know, enlightened is already.
It's not something newly developing, enlightened.
Or the discovery something.
Or we are developing that enlightenment.
I'm sorry, I shouldn't say discover.
It's not we are developing that.
It is already enlightened.
We discover by the practices, meditations.
We discover.
So that means the object is enlightened,
subject is enlightened.
All is enlightened status.
That is really reality, nature, according to teaching.
It's not something that we really develop.
So that means that is like what?
Seeing object, nature of the object as it is.
The world that's seeing the object as it is.
Object as is, as enlightened.
Then seeing the nature of object as it is.
Nature of that object is what?
It's all emptiness.
Emptiness.
There's no substantially solid, conquered objects.
All emptiness.
So that means art is enlightened.
Art is very emptiness.
Fire is the emptiness.
Wind is the emptiness.
And the earth is the emptiness.
It's the emptiness.
There's no substantial solid existing.
So seeing nature exactly as it is.
And then as well as our form, feeling,
as well as consumption, perceptions,
or perception and conceptions and consciousness.
All emptiness.
Again, now what that means actually? Emptiness.
Because even though we see all things,
but reality, if we check that carefully,
investigating or analyzing through the intellectual level,
if we're trying to find the core of existing something,
there's really nothing we can find.
That is what's called emptiness.
It's totally openness.
Totally pervasive.
And freedom.
This appearance of this object as it is,
and that nature of the object is totally union.
Totally union.
That means there's no separable.
No separations.
For those reasons, in the Heart Sutra we find too,
poem is emptiness.
Emptiness of home.
So that means, for example,
if we're kind of trying to make that little clear to our mind,
it may be more understandable.
Our mind is emptiness.
And we're trying to find where is our mind.
Always we know that in the Dokkien practices.
Then emptiness is mind.
That means it's not just when you say emptiness,
it stops the mind.
It's arising.
But it arises.
There is nothing that we can say where it's coming.
That's how the nature is.
This is not just only on the mind.
This forms.
It's all that in that natural status.
Poem, song, space.
All form, feeling, perception,
conception, consciousness, all.
But that emptiness, that flexible qualities.
The pervasive nature that is in the vegetarian teaching
or in the higher duality, that's enlightened.
That's so totally flexible.
Pervasive, pervasive, unending, unceasing.
Yet there is nothing.
That's called magical display.
That's what's called in the teaching, interdependent.
It's all connected.
Yet there is no substantial solid existing.
Concrete solid existing.
That's the way the world is.
That's the way our form is.
Our body is like that.
Our mind is like that.
Really.
There are for many times in said,
mirage being, beings of the mirages,
beings of the dreams.
It's not just making up this fancy store.
It's kind of being.
Reality is really like dream.
Dream, or mirage,
reflection on the moon and water.
Those are huge examples by the great teacher,
Buddha Shakyamuni, to discover this nature
and try to loosen our fixation duality mind.
This fixation duality mind is so fixed, so strong,
reality is not like that.
That's why we got always headaches and troubles, really.
All the troubles, headaches, difficulty, challenges, all this.
Those great yogis,
yogi, yoginis, those great practitioners,
everything is enlightened.
And even they sang the song,
ala alas, ala ala, everything.
Samsara is ala ala, nirvana is ala alas.
Really, these things, it's not just making up.
They're full of the realization is blooming with calm
and peaceful, you and soothing and everything.
That's what they call transform the samsara into nirvana.
Nirvana and nirvana.
For that reason, great master.
Master Nagarjuna said too, in the teaching,
there is no samsara.
The end of samsara is nirvana.
The end of nirvana is samsara.
I don't see any difference between samsara and nirvana.
There is even the slight of the hairs.
Reality is all is mind.
You are in mind created.
For that reason, also great master Mohanarjuna said,
"kinti padhe kyanamu stok manetar dar kotahyans."
When you give up or when you are free from the duality,
that is the end of samsara.
That's the end of samsara.
So that means now you're nirvana.
So nirvana is not something that we have to travel upon.
Wherever you ended or wherever we are able to end our duality,
that is nirvana.
That is not just nirvana, that's akanishta.
Akanishta, all the pure land that was open in the teaching
is beyond the duality.
We are right there.
That's how it is really called in the teaching.
So wooing of the exactly way things appear,
wooing, seeing everything as enlightened status.
And of course now, but at the moment, we won't perceive that.
But intellectually we are understanding.
Theoretically with some understanding,
that is called woo of the analytic.
Woo of this woo.
Analytically wooing something that closer to the nature way things are.
That is a good woo according to Buddhism or according to the teachings.
And analytic woos.
Woos, and that is enlightened.
And now, so now I explain.
Now I explain really about this two woos.
The wooing, the object as it is.
And the wooing, the nature of the object as it is.
Both are in the union status.
And that is so both are union.
And that is what in the teaching Mahayoga.
I'm going to go ahead and grab my teaching and sit.
And great purity of the related truth.
Great purity of the related truths.
So that means everything is enlightened.
Great purity, purity, purity.
And that is the great purity.
Seeing the object as, as,
reality, nature, reality of object as it is.
Seeing the nature of the object as it is.
That is, in going back to the teaching said,
and the great equanimity.
Great equanimity on the absolute levels.
Absolute levels.
So that means, what you see clearly as it is, is relative.
It's a poem is, is we say poem is like as a Verojana.
And the feeling is like Varena Sambha.
Still we are kind of nominating that in one way,
the five different group.
And the five different ways of eliminating,
of the five elements is relatives.
The mind is following on one after another.
The absolute truth is nature.
Nature of that.
That we cannot follow our mind.
That's what with the, to kind of, to activate that call,
call it emptiness.
Emptiness.
Emptiness is we cannot really follow.
We see maybe intellectually sometimes or empty something.
But this emptiness is of course you all know.
We heard this so many times.
It's not blank emptiness.
Not negation emptiness.
Not kind of completely absent the emptiness.
Emptiness maybe that's in his, in his English word.
Means it is, it has full, fullness it has.
Fullness of the potentials.
The potentials is all these aggregates, for example.
Elements are from that emptiness.
Not the emptiness, it's not blank.
From that everything is arising.
It's open because there's openness.
It's never contradicting.
Not crowing.
It's allowance.
Emptiness is allowance.
It's vastness, spaciousness.
For example, if we look to our own mind.
Mind.
Mind is emptiness we said.
I mean it's not just we said, we don't find.
Even intellectual, skeptical.
We say, we said, ah, erase mind.
I don't think they have any answer.
Never found any answer until today.
Maybe in the future who knows.
Really, even the great intellectual, skeptical.
And so famous all this.
What they found, there's no historical point.
Oh, I don't believe maybe they said.
That's it.
That's the answer.
But that's the solution.
Believe, I don't believe.
That is the very desperate statement.
I don't believe.
So that's it.
You don't have anything to say.
That's the really, that's the according to Buddhism.
That's the desperate statement.
That's it.
You end it right there.
Bling.
Block states.
But from that, the emptiness.
From this openness mind.
All thoughts are coming.
You never heard thoughts, that congested thoughts.
Or that traffic jam of thoughts.
Really.
How open?
That's the vastness that tells.
Nature is totally open.
Not totally.
And also so much possible.
There's no restrictions.
That's how the emptiness is.
But that emptiness is that display of the emptiness.
Emptiness is teaching in the Mahayana teaching
as well as the Vajrayana teaching.
And it's really Dharmakaya.
That emptiness is Dharmakaya.
This is not just only the Vajrayana teaching.
Even in Vinaya teaching.
That means basic Buddhist school teachings.
Teachings.
For example, great master.
Great Buddhist disciples.
Three disciples.
Chari Putara and Mongol Putaras.
Mongol Putaras.
First they met.
Buddha's disciples.
One of the five students known as Tataru.
Tataru is very famous in the teachings.
Buddha said among all my students,
battle has the best conduct.
Among all the students,
So when Chari Putara and Mongol Putaras
both are searching for their teachers.
I'm sure you may have heard.
I won't tell all those.
But then, now they really,
they came to the way Buddha is residing.
And the Buddha knew too that they are there.
And now they are really ready to connect with Dharmakaya.
Chari Putara and Mongol Putaras.
They are so intellectual, so highly developed,
and so scholar, and so samadra.
Yet they are searching for their spiritual answers
or dharma answers.
They went to many teachings.
They didn't get the satisfaction.
And then they just came to the Rajagiri,
near the Varsabhic mountain,
the famous capital of the Magadhas at that time.
The Magadha, they came there and came.
Buddha also resided there.
And Buddha saw, now is the time to help them
to usher to dharma.
And Buddha saw how they will be inspired.
By the teachings or by the conduct.
They saw Buddha saw immediately.
So, or by conduct.
They were inspired by the conduct.
And then, so Buddha saw that.
And so then, Buddha talked to Tataal.
Buddha's called among the students.
Tataal, you must think there is two guys.
Two guys.
Chari Putara and Mongol.
But you mustn't think.
When Buddha said that, Tataal is already enlightened.
(speaking foreign language)
And he immediately understood what Buddha means.
And he accepted.
Chari Putara.
Next morning, Tataal.
And of course, traditionally, every time morning,
every day they go to the city on the morning
and get the one meal from the village.
So, in the morning, and Tataal dress up so nice,
whatever he had, dharma, of course.
So many, not many.
And hold the arms both here.
And with perfect conduct, perfect movement,
and he walked toward Chari Putara.
Mongol Buddha decided, particularly Chari Putara.
Far distance, Chari Putara saw.
Chari Putara saw.
Beautiful conduct that person has.
Where he walk, where he dress up.
And saw, condescended mind.
Come and feast while he's walking.
I'm going to go ask him, who is your teacher?
Who are you?
And then he came to Chari, came to Tataal.
Tataal.
And Chari Putara asked, who you are?
And he said, I'm Tataal.
And then, who is your teacher?
And my teacher is Buddha.
Buddha.
And the moment he heard the name of the Buddha,
the Chari Putara, here with the poles come up.
Really, something kind of, it met him.
And what is that he's teaching?
Well, that you will know for him.
But essence of teaching, what is?
Essence of that is what he's teaching.
And essence of teaching is that Chari Putara repeated,
such as, in Sanskrit, we joined.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
That he joined it.
That teaching is generally interdependent.
We call it interdependent.
But it is the teaching, essence of teaching,
the teaching of the full noble truth, and the suffering truth,
cause of suffering truth, and cessation,
and satyaka truth, and path truth.
So what that explaining is all is dependent.
Suffering truth is a dependent cause of suffering truth.
It's not just arising by itself.
It has cause.
Nirvana has cause.
It's path.
So that is where they connect.
It is interdependent, connected.
And not just two pieces of their connect.
There's a variety of ingredients.
So many ingredients come together, producing one result.
That we know when we plant the seed.
Not just art is enough.
Not seed is enough.
There is need so many things put together and produce.
That moment he heard shari potter, he got realization.
Wow.
I never heard that word like that.
And he just really got.
And I want you more, said.
If you want more, you have to go to see my teacher.
Teacher.
You go to see teacher.
And then shari potter, shari potter, monger potter,
they put the best friend today each other.
In the Buddha teaching, they had the previous karma.
They had always been best friends to each other.
So they both told, if anybody got some realization,
understand, have to immediately share to the others.
They made promise.
They made that promise to each other.
So now shari potter got realization or some understand.
He's running toward monger potter.
And monger potter is so far where shari potter is coming,
kind of glowing with the pull of a smile.
And he just looks at it and monger potter says,
look, you got the nectar.
Yes, I got the nectar.
And then he guided that.
And monger potter also really got goosebumps.
He got the goosebumps.
And that's all.
Now, so they got, oh, now we got.
Now we got the teaching.
But now we should see.
We see the, oh, yeah, we got the realization, some realization.
And now we saw the dharma kaya, dharma kaya.
But now we should see the palm body of this great teacher.
So the teaching that what they got realization is like dharma kaya.
So that is really in the Vinaya teaching said that.
Teaching. So this is what the enlightenment call it.
So that's how it is.
And then now, and then what is it?
Among that, so that's really the first two words.
Among the, in the Virginia teaching,
particularly in New York schools, first two.
Third word is ranreg, in it a bit, is ranreg tawa tawa.
So first, maybe I didn't say it in a bit.
First is chuking tawa tawa, chuni tawa tawa, ranreg tawa tawa.
Chuking tawa tawa is the way object,
reality where seeing object with exactly reality of the object as it is.
Reality level that chuking tawa tawa in the bit.
C-H-O-C-H-E-N and tawa and T-A-W-A-A-I tawa and tawa again.
And T-A-W-T-A-W-Chuking tawa tawa.
Chuni tawa tawa, same thing.
Chuni C-H-O-O-N-Y-I.
Chuni and tawa tawa are the same.
Now third one is ranreg tawa tawa.
Ranreg R-A-N-G-R-I-G-T-A-T-A-W-A, same thing.
So it's the same thing.
Chuni tawa tawa, tuni tawa tawa, rare tawa tawa, same thing.
What that means?
Rare tawa tawa.
Who perceiving that phenomena is enlightened?
Nature is enlightened.
Who really perceives or who viewing that?
Ultimately no other than one's own awareness.
Rare is awareness, awareness.
So beholding the view of the awareness,
beholding or viewing the view of one's own awareness.
That is jukti practices, for example.
Jukti practices or when we practice a lineage,
always look to your mind.
When you look to our mind,
is there any subject and object?
In the jukti level, jukti teaching level,
there is no subject and object.
At this first instant when we looked at,
there is, it looks like we are looking something,
but the moment you look that second or that moment is dissolved.
There is no subject and no object.
Now you are abiding the perfect real pristine,
the ordinal nature state which is not deluded by the dualities.
That is the view.
And so who is the view of the, for example,
also of the old related truth, the "I",
related truth, the "I" enlightened.
All absolute truth, the "I" empty there in a union state.
No other than our own awareness mind.
But when we devour that, it's merged, it's completely merged
and dissolved in that enlightenment or beyond the conception.
See this.
So that is generally an understanding of the views.
And this time view is jukti views.
So we go more over next time.
There'll be more.
Of course this teaching is excellent.
And I'm going slowly, but this is, I hope it will,
some very refreshing of your understanding
and your knowledge and contributing our practices.
Okay. Thank you very much.
And I'm going to stop here even though this just started late.
Thank you again.
Thank you very much, everyone.
And then I think whenever you already know,
tomorrow we won't have the, through the Zoom teachings,
teachings on through Zoom, because I'm going to perform the,
like empowerment that.
And of course, generally empowerment and jukti teaching,
all this is really esoteric, so much esoteric, very esoteric.
But among that is really empowerment.
I kind of feel it's more esoteric.
So I don't really feel comfortable to doing this
through the Zoom internet and just, I don't really feel that.
And also it won't help you.
Even if I do, it won't help you too.
And also it is somehow, I'm trespassing so far.
Then I kind of feel that because of my capabilities
and my situation.
So do you understand this?
We won't have tomorrow, the session on the Zoom.
Then of course, morning and evening and all those.
And then Monday we started again continuing from this teaching.
And thank you very much for your understanding.
And thank you, everyone.
Thank you.
Thank you very much, everyone.
Thank you, everyone.
And now we do a few minute meditation.
And then we dedicate a merit.
Merit, I think it has short dedication.
Yeah, it has all that.
So we paid eight in accordance.
But first we do a few minute meditation.
Thank you.